#sidebar TableOfContents

Species distributions are created and published in multiple formats in Internet. SDR supports 2:

 * Polygon based distributions
 * Predefined Areas

Additionally SDR visualization API supports the overlaying of GBIF primary data and in the future niche models produced from GBIF primary data.

= Polygon based distributions / Range maps =

These are very often called Species Range maps. Normally created by taxonomist applying their implied knowledge about the distribution of species. 

== Imported sources ==
2 sources have been imported for testing purposes:

 * Part of the mammals project from the IUCN Red List. http://www.iucnredlist.org/initiatives/mammals
 * Global Registry of Migratory Species http://groms.gbif.org/

Specific scripts had been developed to import them. Check out ImportSourcesShapefile for general instruction and specific ones.

 * [ImportRedList Red List]
 * [ImportGROMSprocedure GROMS]

= Predefined Areas =

To import this kind of species distribution sources an extension for Darwin core was created and a set of darwin core vocabularies. 

 * [http://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=r4I1G8E7mDIgY_kt9Rxyc8A&gid=2 Species distribution extension]
 * [http://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=tVs-UWMXnkD3slwIE8T336w&gid=3 Vocabulary for Occurrence Status]
 * [http://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=tVs-UWMXnkD3slwIE8T336w&gid=5 Life stage vocabulary]

To import this kind of data we use the Darwin Core Checklist Archive format described at: http://code.google.com/p/gbif-ecat/wiki/DwCArchive