#summary SDR Roadmap
#sidebar TableOfContents

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Roadmap =
Project started 15th of June 2009. It is devided in 3 phases and a list of use cases. There is a 4th phase with uses cases/functionalities out of the scope of the current project.

== Phase 1 ==
*Scheduled completition: 1. August 2009*
=== Widget ===
Covering Use Cases 0.0,1.0, 1.1 and 1.2

Implemented features:
 * Flex application called the widget
 * Initialized/configured by
   * either as a) country b) a resource (resourceKey) or c) all datasets
   * taxonomy: optionally a checklist resourceKey
   * species nameID defined by ECAT
 * shows GBIF point data via "EOL" tiles
 * shows separate layer for each resource
   * dynamic legend thats shows some or all of the following: status, nativeness, lifestage and seasonal data
 * export of map in several formats, at least including an image and KML

=== Website===
 * user accounts registration & login
 * home page
 * How to contribute explaining different ways
 * user comments on species pages

===Named Area Repository===
 * database in place with data from:
   * ISO2 codes
   * ISO3 codes
   * TDWG areas
   * US 2 letter code, states
 * website listing available reference systems. For each reference it also shows 1 page with
    * map with the areas
    * all area codes
    * CSV download for the codes
 * WMS & WFS for areas via geoserver. Each reference becomes a layer


== Phase 2 ==
*Scheduled completition 1. October 2009*

=== Import===
 * Covering Use Cases 3.0.1 (3.0.2, 3.1)
    * python script to import shapefiles into postgis. Resolves name strings via ECAT webservice to nameIDs
    * known format of shapefile will be based on GROMS import
 * Covering Use Cases 3.3
   * ECAT will create dwc-a for download with nameIDs and the distribution extension
   * ECAT will push SDR import service passing a resourceKey and dwc-a URL for download


===API===

=== Website v2===
 * taxonomic browser

===Named Area Repository v2===
 * additional with data from:
   * catchment / fish areas
   * known bird areas
   * if available European states. See Global Administrative Areas (GADM): http://biogeo.berkeley.edu/gadm/

== Phase 3 ==
*Scheduled for 16. October 2009*
 * Use cases & promotion material


== Out Of Scope (not finished)==

=== Import===
 * import of niche models
 * Use Cases 3.3
 * Use Cases 3.1: no import of GBIF point data yet, but visualisation of points via widget. Import could be done in the future via alpha shapes or alike
 * Use Cases 3.4: raster import is out of scope
 * Use Cases 3.5: no textual data import

===API===

===Analysis===
 * Use Cases 4.2: derived maps are not created in this project. If GBIF or others are providing data like this, it can be visualised if its based on the known Named Areas:
    * species count per named area
    * list of species per named area